---
draft: false
title: "Learning Week 2020#13"
date: 2020-03-29
description: "Lifelong learning weekly diary"
tags: ["LearningWeek"]
---


## Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence

When I say (and write) it, it seems obvious. If something doesn't appear, it doesn't mean that it doesn't exist. This should really be one of the pillars of the scientific method.

I learned that authors often overlook this very simple truth. Worse, they often do on purpose. It becomes especially relevant in statistical studies. This is why, when beginning a study, the authors should state from the start what are the conditions and outcomes that would falsify their theory.

## Naples vs Venice

I learned that Naples, Italy is eastern than Venice, Italy.

I was born and raised in Italy, yet I never realized how diagonally Italy is placed. It's insane.

## Five Chimps

I've learned over the years that people I spend time with have a big impact on who I am, what I think, what I do.

I discovered this simple idea oftentimes goes under the name "Five Chimps Theory". It states that you can predict the behavior of a chimp by looking at the other chimps he stays with.

I learned I have to choose my chimps very carefully.

## I am a pirate

Pirates in the 17th and 18th centuries never really became rich. The treasury thing, the gold rush, assaulting boats, etc., never really made anybody rich.

Pirates were pirates because they enjoyed being it. Not because of the money. They liked adventures, and didn't mind living on a boat.

The pursuit of knowledge is more satisfactory to me than the knowledge itself. I like the engineering process better than making money out of it. Understanding how to run faster and break my limits is more pleasing than actually running faster.

Thus, I learned that I am a pirate too.

## Everybody just says Yes

Pitching a product, especially a startup's product, takes a lot of effort. Countless, different decks of slides, one for each potential customer.

I learned that everybody says yes to my pitch, initially. They slow down when it's time to sign an evaluation agreement (not paid). And they turn back when it's time to pay.

## Language Matters

I focused so much on complicated stuff, Natural Language Processing, statistics and machine learning, that I forgot many simple things. Many important ones.

Language matters, and they teach us it wrong, at school.

Is it raining? So what?

I learned that, when I wake up, I can say loudly "It's a beautiful rainy day", and still enjoy a great day.

