---
draft: false
title: "Learning Week 2020#15"
date: 2020-04-12
description: "Lifelong learning weekly diary"
tags: ["LearningWeek"]
---


## Parquet is not just pavement

I've been introduced to Redshift, Bigquery and similar tools the past week, and found out that the column-oriented database structure can become even more efficient in these tools. Oh, old dear PostgreSQL...
Plus, there's a very fancy name for a file format I can load data from: parquet.

I am learning that choosing data storage becomes every day more and more complicated.


## CloudFlare

I had no idea what CloudFlare was, before the past week. It turns out it is a very famous content delivery network. I've always used AWS Cloudfront. They have some "nice" infrastructure where developers can deploy applications, called workers. And probably much more.

I learned that there's not enough time to learn.

## WHY matters a lot

I am reading a famous book that talks about inspiration, motivations, why people do things, and why people follow some leaders and not others. A friend has told me many times that I am good at asking questions, so I started asking-- what's my WHY?

I learned that I do everything because I go after personal freedom and improvement.

## Screening people is an art

I got used to technical screening a long time ago. Coding challenges, logical quizzes, and stuff like that. I did that for a few applications of mines (quite successfully) and then also as a screener. But this past week I screened applicants why the CEO of my new company (as I am CTO). He looks for something totally different. And, just because coincidences always happen at the right time, I also read in a book this sentence "employees must share the WHY and the motivations. Skills can be learned."

I learned that I have to ask WHY to other people too.

## Always ask how things work

Something broke in my apartment this week, because I was passing a wire into the wall, and didn't know there was already a wire there, for a different system. Thus the latter broke (and now I am in deep troubles). I didn't know that other wire was there, because I didn't know how that other system worked.

I learned that I should always ask how things work, because I may break them anytime without even realizing.

