---
draft: false
title: "Learning Week 2020#14"
date: 2020-04-05
description: "Lifelong learning weekly diary"
tags: ["LearningWeek"]
---

## First Copy, Then Improve

A lot of problems have been already solved by great people before us. Almost all problems have been thought, researched and probably even solved.

Lots of people either don't know, or don't want to know, or pretend to not know this truth. They pretend to discover the wheel every time by themselves.

I learned that to be great the first thing must be to copy other great minds. Only later, rarely, one can improve on that.

Yelp API

I learned that if I need to look at how to structure an API documentation, Yelp is a great example. Copy it.


## Everybody wants to be Toptal

I have been in Toptal for a long while now, and have had great success with it. Over the past few months (maybe a year), I was contacted by so many "new freelancer platforms" which propose themselves as alternatives.

I am sorry to say, they are just ugly copies of Toptal.

I learned that Arc is really the only one who did a pretty good job at differentiating themselves, and I am happy I am with them too.

## Statisticians speak a weird language

I know quite a bit of statistics, and I mean even moderately complicated things, not just some A/B stuff. Yet, every time I watch a lecture of a true statistician I am amazed at how they speak. It seems like they have their own language. To be "scientists" they do use a lot of words!

I learned that I need to read more papers of great statisticians, if I want to master their tongue.

## Google Places Pricing

I learned that you need a lawyer to understand Google Places API pricing.


## Star Schema

Database is a field of computer engineering I really care about. I like it, it feels like power. I've studied it a lot, but not nearly as much as I would like.

I learned that there exists such a fancy name for one of the most natural entity representations: star schema. How cool is that?

